docs/Controlled Vocabularies/Species CV.md, before:

# Species Controlled Vocabulary

| ID                  | Label                     | Synonym                  |
|---------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------|
| NCBITaxon:9606      | Homo sapiens              | human                    |
| NCBITaxon:9483      | Callithrix jacchus        | common marmoset          |
| NCBITaxon:10090     | Mus musculus              | mouse                    |
| NCBITaxon:9544      | Macaca mulatta            | rhesus macaque           |
| NCBITaxon:60711     | Chlorocebus sabaeus       | green monkey             |
| NCBITaxon:9999      | Urocitellus parryii       | Arctic ground squirrel   |
| NCBITaxon:9361      | Dasypus novemcinctus      | nine-banded armadillo    |
| NCBITaxon:9598      | Pan troglodytes           | chimpanzee               |
| NCBITaxon:9669      | Mustela putorius furo     | ferret                   |
| NCBITaxon:9593      | Gorilla gorilla           | western gorilla          |
| NCBITaxon:9545      | Macaca nemestrina         | pig-tailed macaque       |
| NCBITaxon:13616     | Monodelphis domestica     | gray short-tailed opossum|
| NCBITaxon:9986      | Oryctolagus cuniculus     | rabbit                   |
| NCBITaxon:10116     | Rattus norvegicus         | rat                      |
| NCBITaxon:9541      | Macaca fascicularis       | crab-eating macaque      |
| NCBITaxon:9534      | Chlorocebus aethiops      | grivet                   |
| NCBITaxon:9614      | Canis latrans             | coyote                   |
| NCBITaxon:9555      | Papio anubis              | olive baboon             |
| NCBITaxon:27679     | Saimiri boliviensis       | black-capped squirrel monkey |
| NCBITaxon:9521      | Saimiri sciureus          | squirrel monkey          |
| NCBITaxon:30608     | Microcebus murinus        | mouse lemur              |
| NCBITaxon:37293     | Aotus nancymaae           | owl monkey               |
| NCBITaxon:37347     | Tupaia belangeri          | treeshrew                |
| NCBITaxon:10181     | Heterocephalus glaber     | naked mole rat           |
| NCBITaxon:9823      | Sus scrofa                | pig                      |

## Changelog

- **August 7, 2025 — Version 1.0.0**
    - Initial release of the Species Controlled Vocabulary.
    - Added 25 species entries with NCBI Taxon IDs, labels, and synonyms.

Commit message:

DT-8503 Update Species CV to reflect usage (#20)
* changing species column names for improved accuracy

* updated changelog, added macaca, updated usage notes

docs/Controlled Vocabularies/Species CV.md, after:

# Species Controlled Vocabulary

| ID                  | Binomial Name                     | Common Name                  |
|---------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------|
| NCBITaxon:9606      | Homo sapiens              | human                    |
| NCBITaxon:9483      | Callithrix jacchus        | common marmoset          |
| NCBITaxon:10090     | Mus musculus              | mouse                    |
| NCBITaxon:9544      | Macaca mulatta            | rhesus macaque           |
| NCBITaxon:60711     | Chlorocebus sabaeus       | green monkey             |
| NCBITaxon:9999      | Urocitellus parryii       | Arctic ground squirrel   |
| NCBITaxon:9361      | Dasypus novemcinctus      | nine-banded armadillo    |
| NCBITaxon:9598      | Pan troglodytes           | chimpanzee               |
| NCBITaxon:9669      | Mustela putorius furo     | ferret                   |
| NCBITaxon:9593      | Gorilla gorilla           | western gorilla          |
| NCBITaxon:9545      | Macaca nemestrina         | pig-tailed macaque       |
| NCBITaxon:13616     | Monodelphis domestica     | gray short-tailed opossum|
| NCBITaxon:9986      | Oryctolagus cuniculus     | rabbit                   |
| NCBITaxon:10116     | Rattus norvegicus         | rat                      |
| NCBITaxon:9541      | Macaca fascicularis       | crab-eating macaque      |
| NCBITaxon:9534      | Chlorocebus aethiops      | grivet                   |
| NCBITaxon:9614      | Canis latrans             | coyote                   |
| NCBITaxon:9555      | Papio anubis              | olive baboon             |
| NCBITaxon:27679     | Saimiri boliviensis       | black-capped squirrel monkey |
| NCBITaxon:9521      | Saimiri sciureus          | squirrel monkey          |
| NCBITaxon:30608     | Microcebus murinus        | mouse lemur              |
| NCBITaxon:37293     | Aotus nancymaae           | owl monkey               |
| NCBITaxon:37347     | Tupaia belangeri          | treeshrew                |
| NCBITaxon:10181     | Heterocephalus glaber     | naked mole rat           |
| NCBITaxon:9823      | Sus scrofa                | pig                      |
| NCBITaxon:9539      | Macaca*                   | macaque*                 |

## Usage Notes

For animals simply named 'macaque', we use the taxon 'Macaca' which is actually a genus (not a species). Since we cannot be certain of the actual species specified, we simply note the genus (NCBITaxon:9539). This is due to underspecification or uncertainty regarding the primates involved.

## Changelog

- **August 28, 2025 -- Version 1.0.1**
  - Changed column from 'label' to 'binomial name'
  - Changed column from 'synonyms' to 'common name'
  - Added NCBITaxon:9539 (Macaca)
  - Updated Usage Notes to describe how to handle generic 'macaque'

- **August 7, 2025 — Version 1.0.0**
  - Initial release of the Species Controlled Vocabulary.
  - Added 25 species entries with NCBI Taxon IDs, labels, and synonyms.
